MITIE: MIT Information Extraction
=====

This project provides free (even for commercial use)
[state-of-the-art](../../wiki/Evaluation) information extraction
tools. The current release includes tools for performing named entity
extraction and binary relation detection as well as tools for training
custom extractors and relation detectors.  

Additionally, the core library provides APIs in C, C++, and Python.  Outside
projects have created bindings for [OCaml](https://github.com/travisbrady/omitie) and 
[.NET](https://github.com/BayardRock/MITIE-Dot-Net).  Future releases will 
add bindings in Java, R, and possibly other languages.

# Using MITIE

MITIE's primary API is a C API which is documented in the
[mitie.h](mitielib/include/mitie.h) header file.  Beyond this, there are many
[example programs](examples/) showing how to use mitie from C, C++, or Python.

# Building MITIE (Unix-like systems)

If you obtained MITIE by cloning the main repository then you must first fetch the
submodules (dlib).  Do this by running `fetch_submodules.sh`. 
Then, to compile the examples type the following command:

```
make examples
```

To run the examples you will need to download the trained model files
which you can do by running:
```
make MITIE-models
```
or by simply downloading the [MITIE-models-v0.2.tar.bz2](http://sourceforge.net/projects/mitie/files/binaries/MITIE-models-v0.2.tar.bz2)
file and extracting it in your MITIE folder.

Now you can run a few of the primary examples, for example:

```
./ner_example MITIE-models/english/ner_model.dat sample_text.txt 
```

This command runs `ner_example` using the `ner_model.dat` sample
model. A summary of the entities found in `sample_text.txt` will be
printed out to the `STDOUT`.

Alternatively, you can tell MITIE to process each line of a text file
independently and output marked up text with the command:

```
cat sample_text.txt | ./ner_stream MITIE-models/english/ner_model.dat  
```

You can also run a simple regression test to validate your build, run
the following command:

```
make test
```

`make test` builds both the example programs and downloads required
example models.  If you require a non-standard C++ compiler, change
`CC` in `examples/C/makefile` and in `tools/ner_stream/makefile`.

# Building MITIE (non-Unix systems)

The above works on most Unix-like systems.  For Windows and other platforms we have provided [CMake](http://www.cmake.org)
build scripts.  To compile using CMake you would use this alternative set of commands:

```
cd examples/C
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build . --config Release
```

Finally, you can create a MITIE shared library by executing:

```
cd mitielib
make
```

And again, ths will work on most Unix systems but if you are on a platform where it doesn't you can use
the provided CMake files in the mitielib folder.  So type the following to compile MITIE as a shared library using CMake:

```
cd mitielib
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build . --config Release
```

# Precompiled binaries

We have built binaries packaged with sample models for Macos and Linux (64 and 32-bit).  These packages are downloadable here:
* [Linux32](http://sourceforge.net/projects/mitie/files/binaries/MITIE-0.1-linux32.zip)
* [Linux64](http://sourceforge.net/projects/mitie/files/binaries/MITIE-0.1-linux64.zip)
* [Macos](http://sourceforge.net/projects/mitie/files/binaries/MITIE-0.1-osx.zip)

# License

MITIE is licensed under the Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003.  

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
